EIP-1901: Add OpenRPC Service Discovery To JSON-RPC Services (#1901)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-1901.md

# Add OpenRPC Service Discovery To JSON-RPC Services

>     EIP: ??

Reviewer: Should use 1901.

    Title: Add OpenRPC Service Discovery To JSON-RPC Services

>     Author: Shane Jonas, Zachary Belford

Reviewer: Should include email or a github username to at least one of the authors to support automerging in draft stage.

### Use Case
This is the vision for the use case of OpenRPC and how it would relate to multi-geth:

![MultGethRpc-usecase](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364566/54172981-4605f480-443d-11e9-9e29-80c580f9edae.png)

# Specification

### What is OpenRPC?
The [OpenRPC](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec) Specification defines a standard, programming language-agnostic interface description for [JSON-RPC 2.0](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) APIs, which allows both humans and computers to discover and understand the capabilities of a service without requiring access to source code, additional documentation, or inspection of network traffic. When properly defined via OpenRPC, a consumer can understand and interact with the remote service with a minimal amount of implementation logic, and share these logic patterns across use cases. Similar to what interface descriptions have done for lower-level programming, the OpenRPC Specification removes guesswork in calling a service.

##### Structure
This is the structure of an OpenRPC Document:

![openrpc-spec-structure](https://github.com/open-rpc/design/raw/master/diagrams/structure/OpenRPC_structure.png)

> The OpenRPC Document that implements all the methods from #1474 and #1436 and `getRawTransaction*` can be found in [assets/eip-1901/openrpc.json](assets/eip-1901/openrpc.json)

Author: ```suggestion
The OpenRPC Document that specifies all the methods an EVM-based blockchain should implement can be found [here](https://github.com/etclabscore/ethereum-json-rpc-specification).
```

---
eip: 1901
title: Add OpenRPC Service Discovery To JSON-RPC Services
author: Shane Jonas (@shanejonas), Zachary Belford (@belfordz)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1902
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2019-02-25
---

## Abstract
### What is this?

This is a proposal to add [OpenRPC](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec) support to existing and future JSON-RPC services by adding the method [`rpc.discover`](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec#service-discovery-method) to the projects [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) APIs, enabling automation and tooling.

The OpenRPC Document and generated Documentation that specifies all the methods an EVM-based blockchain should implement can be found [here](https://github.com/etclabscore/ethereum-json-rpc-specification).

This was first proposed [here as an ECIP](https://github.com/etclabscore/ECIPs/blob/master/ECIPs/ECIP-1053.md), but the benefits of this kind of tooling is apparent across Bitcoin, Ethereum Classic, Ethereum and other JSON-RPC accessible blockchains.

## Motivation

> EVM-based blockchains lack a form RPC Specification. This proposal attempts to standardize such a specification in a way that is versionable, and both human and machine readable.

Reviewer: I think this should just say "Ethereum" since this is the EIPs repo. Also note there is a spec: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1474.md

Ethereum clients can expose RPC endpoints with different method signatures and cause compatability issues between clients.

Developers need a reliable developer experience, and an industry standard way to describe Ethereum JSON-RPC 2.0 APIs.

> ## Implementation

Reviewer: The implementation section comes after the specification and it usually lists implementations. I think what you are describing here belongs to the specification section.

### How do I Solve the problem?
JSON-RPC APIs can support the OpenRPC specification by implementing a service discovery method that will return the [OpenRPC document](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec#openrpc-document) for the JSON-RPC API. The method MUST be named `rpc.discover`. The `rpc.` prefix is a reserved method prefix for [JSON-RPC 2.0 Specification](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) system extensions.

### Use Case
This is the vision for the use case of OpenRPC and how it would relate to multi-geth:

> ![MultGethRpc-usecase](../assets/multi-geth-use-case.png)

Reviewer: Both files need to go under `assets/eip-1901/`.

## Specification

### What is OpenRPC?
The [OpenRPC](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec) Specification defines a standard, programming language-agnostic interface description for [JSON-RPC 2.0](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) APIs, which allows both humans and computers to discover and understand the capabilities of a service without requiring access to source code, additional documentation, or inspection of network traffic. When properly defined via OpenRPC, a consumer can understand and interact with the remote service with a minimal amount of implementation logic, and share these logic patterns across use cases. Similar to what interface descriptions have done for lower-level programming, the OpenRPC Specification removes guesswork in calling a service.

##### Structure
This is the structure of an OpenRPC Document:

![openrpc-spec-structure](../assets/OpenRPC_structure.png)

## Rationale
### Why would we do this?

> Services need to figure out how to talk to each other. If we really want to build the next generation of automation, then having up to date libraries, documented APIs, and modern tools are going to provide easy discovery, on-boarding, and enable end user and developer interaction.

Reviewer: This seems to be part of the motivation. Rationale should explain how and what kind of decisions were made influencing the specification.

Use cases for machine-readable [JSON-RPC 2.0](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) API definition documents include, but are not limited to:

- A common vocabulary and document will keep developers, testers, architects, and technical writers all in sync.
- Server stubs/skeletons generated in many languages
- Clients generated in many languages
- Mock Server generated in many languages
- Tests generated in many languages
- Documentation Generation

> ## Alternative

Reviewer: I think this content could be folded into one of the prior sections (potentially the rationale).

Reviewer: I still think this is the case, but it can be discussed later with more input from others.

---
eip: 1901
title: Add OpenRPC Service Discovery To JSON-RPC Services
author: Shane Jonas (@shanejonas), Zachary Belford (@belfordz)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1902
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2019-02-25
---

> # Abstract

Reviewer: All these headings are two-levels in, `## Abstract`.

### What is this?

This is a proposal to add [OpenRPC](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec) support to existing and future JSON-RPC services by adding the method [`rpc.discover`](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec#service-discovery-method) to the projects [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) APIs, enabling automation and tooling.

The OpenRPC Document and generated Documentation that specifies all the methods an EVM-based blockchain should implement can be found [here](https://github.com/etclabscore/ethereum-json-rpc-specification).

# Motivation

> This was first proposed [here as an ECIP](https://github.com/etclabscore/ECIPs/blob/master/ECIPs/ECIP-1053.md), but the benefits of this kind of tooling is apparent across Bitcoin, Ethereum Classic, Ethereum and other JSON-RPC accessible blockchains.

Reviewer: I think this isn't the primary motivation. It may be more fitting for a rationale section.

Reviewer: Please consider the above comment.

> ### What is the problem?

Reviewer: I think this is the primary motivation, you may want to word this section a bit more nicely.

- Maintenance time and accuracy on:
    - documentation
    - APIs
    - clients
- Not all JSON-RPC servers return the same methods or return the same version of the API.
- There is nothing that provides both human *and* machine-readable interfaces to be able to interact with JSON-RPC.
- Communication between services in different programming languages is not easy.
- Implementation usually comes at the cost of user experience consuming the API.

# Implementation
### How do I Solve the problem?
JSON-RPC APIs can support the OpenRPC specification by implementing a service discovery method that will return the [OpenRPC document](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec#openrpc-document) for the JSON-RPC API. The method MUST be named `rpc.discover`. The `rpc.` prefix is a reserved method prefix for [JSON-RPC 2.0 Specification](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) system extensions.

### Use Case
This is the vision for the use case of OpenRPC and how it would relate to multi-geth:

> ![MultGethRpc-usecase](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364566/54172981-4605f480-443d-11e9-9e29-80c580f9edae.png)

Reviewer: Please move this file into `assets/eip-1901/`

# Specification

### What is OpenRPC?
The [OpenRPC](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec) Specification defines a standard, programming language-agnostic interface description for [JSON-RPC 2.0](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) APIs, which allows both humans and computers to discover and understand the capabilities of a service without requiring access to source code, additional documentation, or inspection of network traffic. When properly defined via OpenRPC, a consumer can understand and interact with the remote service with a minimal amount of implementation logic, and share these logic patterns across use cases. Similar to what interface descriptions have done for lower-level programming, the OpenRPC Specification removes guesswork in calling a service.

##### Structure
This is the structure of an OpenRPC Document:

> ![openrpc-spec-structure](https://github.com/open-rpc/design/raw/master/diagrams/structure/OpenRPC_structure.png)

Reviewer: And this too.

- A common vocabulary and document will keep developers, testers, architects, and technical writers all in sync.
- Server stubs/skeletons generated in many languages
- Clients generated in many languages
- Mock Server generated in many languages
- Tests generated in many languages
- Documentation Generation

# Alternative
[OpenRPC](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec) documents just describe [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) APIs services, and are represented in JSON format. These documents may be produced and served statically OR generated dynamically from an application and returned via the [`rpc.discover`](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec#service-discovery-method) method. This gives projects and communities the flexibility to adopt tools before the [`rpc.discover`](https://github.com/open-rpc/spec#service-discovery-method) method is implemented.

## Resources

- [EDCON 2019 talk on OpenRPC and The Future of JSON-RPC Tooling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UgSPMZ9FQ4Q)
- [open-rpc.org](https://open-rpc.org)
- [etclabscore/ethereum-json-rpc-specification](https://github.com/etclabscore/ethereum-json-rpc-specification)

## Copyright

>  Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) and code via [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Reviewer: I think there's no code in this EIP so it may be misleading presenting the license for code here.
